Script - this is where I save my R scripts and RMarkdown files (files with the extension .R and .Rmd).

- Analysis - All my main analysis R scripts are saved here, which I think it is for most intents and purposes fine if you have multiple scripts that perform different tasks saved here. I don’t personally have one project per distinct piece of analysis, as this could get out of hand when I may have 20+ different analysis that I’d like to perform on a single dataset. My (actually quite simple) rule-of-thumb for deciding whether to separate out an analysis is to imagine whether someone completely new to the project would be able to navigate and figure out what is going with this directory. As a side note - thoughtful and sensible file names help a lot!
- Functions - It is optional whether you have your custom functions saved in a separate sub-folder. I find this convenient personally because if I want to re-use a function that I remember I’ve written in a particular project, I can at a quick glance browse all the functions I’ve written for that project. Saving functions separately accompanies a workflow where you use source() to read functions into the ‘main analysis script’, rather than having it together with main analysis.
- RMarkdown files - RMarkdown files are a special case, as they work slightly differently to .R files in terms of file paths, i.e. they behave like mini projects of their own, where the default working directory is where the Rmd file is saved. To save RMarkdown files in this set up, it’s recommended that you use the {here} package and its workflow. Alternatively, you can run knitr::opts_knit$set(root.dir = "../") in your setup chunk so that the working directory is set in the root directory rather than another sub-folder where the RMarkdown file is saved (less ideal than using {here}). In my other post, I briefly discussed a directory structure for combining multiple RMarkdown files into a single long RMarkdown document](https://martinctc.github.io/blog/first-world-problems-very-long-rmarkdown-documents/).
